In the last lecture, we set up our own route with indexedDB, now I want to provide a fallback, an offline.html fallback
for routes I can't find
and right now, workboxSW here doesn't provide an easy way to set up such a fallback.
I think chances are good that it will offer this feature in the future since it seems kind of common
to be used but we can easily implement it right now too.
I'll copy my custom route here and here, I'll now show you another trick.
Thus far I showed you this matching via strings, express style routes or via regular expressions,
actually there's a third way of matching requests.
You can pass a function which will receive the route data,
so data about the route, the URL, the request which is about to be loaded. Now in there,
you have to return true if it should be a hit,
so like this would always handle every route.
Of course that's not what I want to do,
instead I want to check if my route data which exposes the fetch event,
so .event, if the request in that fetch event, if the headers there have an accept header which then includes
text/html.
So this basically is checking, is the incoming request no matter which URL it is targeting,
I'm not caring about that but does it have a header where it accepts
HTML because that then seems like a valid candidate to get the offline.html file
and I just returned this, this will be true if an incoming request does accept this kind of content.
And again I access route data event because route data is an object which has two properties,
one is the fetch event and the other would be URL, so routeData.url, this would hold
the URL which you of course can also extract from route data event request,
so it's just an easier way.
Now with that, we get a hit on every request wanting HTML,
now we can write our own handler and in this own handler, I now want to make sure that I of course return
the actual requested page if possible but return my HTML, my offline.html file if not
possible
and we already got the code for this. In my service-worker.js file, here my cache with network fallback,
I can basically use that.
So here I can copy all that code
and we're going to tweak it a little bit
but in general, it will work and I'll replace all the code here from fetch downwards with it.
So now first of all, we need to make sure that we don't use event requests here when we match it with
the cache
but args.event.request because keep in mind, we're in that handler function where we only get args
but on the args, there is an event property which gives us access to the fetch event. Then we still get
the response if we find it in the cache and we return it and we fallback to the network if we don't
find it in the cache,
therefore here it's also args.event.request and we want to store it in our cache if we get
a successful network response.
Now here, I'll simply add a name dynamic because I no longer have this global variable and we could reintroduce
it
but we don't really have to manage that much cache versions here anymore,
so I'll just hardcode it in here and it's the only place where we use that anyways.
So here, we open the dynamic cache or create it if it doesn't exist and put the element we got back in
there,
so that's basically the code we already used.
We also cached any errors,
so we couldn't find it in the cache,
we also can't fetch it from the network,
so in this case I want to return the offline.html file and I do this by calling caches match
instead of open
and I want to match the offline.html file.
This then gives me the response in the function, in the then block and in there, I only have to return
the response because I don't have to check the content-type,
I already do this here,
we don't even get to this part
if the incoming request doesn't expect or accept HTML.
So with this, our offline.html fallback should work again and keep in mind, this page is getting cached
because in our workbox-cli-config, we do cache all HTML files except for help related ones,
so therefore this does work.
Now with that, let's open the terminal again and re-run generate-sw and with that, execute it. Let's clear
the storage one more time and reload this one more time
and this does not seem to be working as expected.
Let's see what's wrong,
yes in our base file here, we're putting something invalid on the cache,
this should be args.event.request.url.
Now with this tweak,
let's rerun generate-sw and then let's go back to our application here and clear the storage one more
time,
now let's reload and reload again
and now it's working correctly because now it's storing it correctly in the cache.
Now the cool thing is if we go offline, that still works but if I navigate to help which wasn't cached,
I get my fallback page which still works as before.
So we're already pretty close to our previous behavior,
actually we implemented all the logic from the old service worker when it comes to fetching. We're handling
posts with indexedDB,
we're serving our precached files and we also have a fallback for HTML files.
Additionally, we even take the extra effort which isn't that much effort of splitting our other dynamic assets
like Google fonts and the CDN here over different caches and also the store the post images in a separate
cache.
So this already is a nice set up
and as you see, it's very clean to read,
we don't have to mess around with if/else statements or switch statements inside our fetch listener,
we use workboxSW router and it's just working.
Of course we're not done though, the whole background synchronization and push message stuff is missing.
So let's fix this next.